#### 2019-08-24 CORe Connections 09

##### Instructions:

Think of a company you’re familiar with or that interests you. Briefly describe how the concepts you’ve learned in each of the three courses may help you better understand certain decisions made by the company. If not writing from your own personal knowledge, be sure to cite your main reference sources.

##### Shared:

I have heard the story of aircraft engine and marine vessel engine maker Rolls-Royce’s famous Power-by-the-Hour business model in 1962 around offering a fixed cost per flying hour basis ([Rolls-Royce, 2012](https://www.rolls-royce.com/media/press-releases-archive/yr-2012/121030-the-hour.aspx)), but never really looked into the merits of such a model for Rolls-Royce. Rolls-Royce later launched its _CorporateCare_ aircraft engine maintenance programme with additional features around the same concept in 2002, according to the same media release. 

The merits of Rolls-Royce’s so called Performance-Based Logistics (PBL) are multifold, as pointed out by an article by Wharton ([Wharton University of Pennsylvania, 2007](https://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article/power-by-the-hour-can-paying-only-for-performance-redefine-how-products-are-sold-and-serviced/)) - compared to a fixed-price or cost-plus contract, a PBL contract allows risk sharing between Rolls-Royce and the aircraft operator, as it incentivize Rolls-Royce to keep maintenance cost down and at the same time ensuring good performance of the engines (e.g. minimizing downtime). The PBL model would also be attractive to aircraft operators since it allows them to better forecast (and minimize) costs associated with unexpected downtime and unscheduled maintenance events.

Another article suggests that prior to its power-by-the-hour business model, Rolls-Royce’s lucrative aftersales business was under pressure from third party servicing firms and other aircraft engine makers who competed with it for the servicing and maintenance business of its engines ([Blue Canyon Partners, 2019](https://bluecanyonpartners.com/taking-flight-how-data-is-being-used-to-create-new-business-models-and-drive-profitable-growth/)). As we learned in the Economics for Managers course, a business would do well in maximizing the value creation as well as the value capture of its operation. By its PBL model, I guess Rolls-Royce is well-placed to negotiate its PBL contract together with the sales of its engines, effectively blocking out competitors from the aftersales services for its engines. 

The same article by Blue Canyon Partners suggests that the advancement of technology to better monitor performance data in real-time helps to unlock even more benefits to both Rolls-Royce and its customers. Indeed, another media release by Rolls-Royce in 2017 announced a first-of-its-kind service agreement for two marine vessels, harnessing the power of big-data to monitor, plan and perform maintenance and repairs ([Rolls-Royce, 2017](https://www.rolls-royce.com/media/press-releases/2017/24-05-2017-nor-lines-and-rr-sign-landmark-power-by-the-hour-service-agreement.aspx)). This is made possible by the ability to digitally monitor onboard systems of the vessels from on shore. Data (or business) analytics too played an important role in the invention of the original Power-by-The-Hour and still-evolving PBL model, making increasing use of data for performance and predictive maintenance and monitoring purposes. In creating the business model Rolls-Royce must have also performed prediction of its future cash flows and evaluation metrics such as net present value before adopting the PBL model.